IPv4/IPv6 and IPv6 only examples for Edge (downstream) clusters (#24)
suse-edge/atip: telco-examples/edge-clusters/dhcp/ipv6/single-node/README.md

# Edge clusters with IPv6 networking

## Introduction

> This directory contains some sample CAPI manifest files that enable the creation of Edge clusters where the bare metal hosts, and the executing containers on top, are exclusively connected through IPv6, with the following characteristics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains examples of BMH and CAPI manifest files that allow the creation of Edge clusters with support for IPv6, with the following characteristics:
```

        - `${CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY}` - the IPv6 address of the gateway for the traffic matching the default route
        - `${CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE}` - the name of the interface to assign the address to and to use for the egressing traffic matching the default route

- `bmh-example_slaac+dhcp.yaml` - both RAs and DHCP are enabled for autoconfiguration, resulting in a SLAAC deduced address and default route assignments, and DNS reception from DHCP (when not optionally provided by the RAs); this is most likely the only configuration you will ever need, as no further input is required.

- `bmh-example_slaac+dhcp+dns.yaml` - this configuration is identical to the `bmh-example_slaac+dhcp.yaml` above, with the exception of statically provided DNS servers; it can be useful in networks where only RAs are avaiable but with no DNS option.
     Requires:
         - `${DNS_SERVER}` - the IPv6 address(es) of the DNS server(s) to use, as a single or multiple entries

**Note**:
 * Due to limitations in [nmstate](https://nmstate.io/devel/yaml_api.html#ipv6-autoconf), it is not possible to enable SLAAC but disable DHCPv6; for this reason DHCP will always be enabled in the provided examples.

>  * The network configuration will only apply to the provisioned BMH and not yet on the inspection phase of the host to gather hardware information. This is due to a bug that will force the use of RA/DHCP with the default settings; a resolution is espected in the coming weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The network configuration will only apply to the provisioned BMH and not yet on the inspection phase of the host to gather hardware information. This is due to a bug that will force the use of RA/DHCP with the default settings; a resolution is espected coming soon.
```

Once the required BMH file has been selected and refined, in order for it to work, it must also be filled with some values common to all the BMH definitions in addition to the network specific ones previously mentioned. For more information on these values or on how to enroll a Bare Metal Host, please refer to the main Edge Cluster documentation for single host deployments [here](https://github.com/suse-edge/atip/tree/main/telco-examples/edge-clusters#example-1---deploy-a-single-node-edge-cluster-with-the-image-generated-and-telco-profiles).

## Cluster definitions

The CAPI cluster definitions to be applied once the bare metal host has been inspected and is available for provisioning, are organized into two directories, depending on whether a single CNI plugin is sufficient or if multihomed Pods are required, through the use of the [Multus](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni) meta-plugin. Note that the use of the SR-IOV plugin along with Multus is of course possible but not covered, as it doesn't require any specific IPAM configuration.

The definition files come with any CNI plugin specific configuration that may be required and are organized as follow:

> - `single-cni`:

Reviewer: Same comment about renaming to keep them with similar format

   - `cluster-v6-canal_whereabouts.yaml` - the cluster will use Canal as the CNI plugin in combination with "whereabouts" as Multus IPAM for the second interface
   - `cluster-v6-cilium_hostlocal.yaml` - the cluster will use Cilium as the CNI plugin in combination with "host-local" as Multus IPAM for the second interface
   - `cluster-v6-cilium_whereabouts.yaml` - the cluster will use Cilium as the CNI plugin in combination with "whereabouts" as Multus IPAM for the second interface

Regardless of the selected file, it should be edited to define at least the following values:
- `${EDGE_CONTROL_PLANE_IP}` - the additional IPv6 address the edge cluster is reacheable from (should match with the kubeapi-server endpoint)
- `${RKE2_VERSION}` - the RKE2 version to be installed during the provisioning by CAPI
- `http://imagecache.local:8080/eibimage-slmicro60rt.raw` - the URL where the generated EIB image can be located and downloaded during the provisioning; the checksum URL must be updated accordingly as well.

It is also recommended that you change the following items:

> - `RKE2ControlPlane.spec.agentConfig.nodeName` - the hostname that will be set on the host

Reviewer: as I said, we don't need to modify this
